10 September 2020
Written Assignment 1
What is the Linux Operating System?
A family of open source Unix-like operating systems based on the Linux kernel

Name at least 3 major parts of what makes up the Operating System?
The Linux kernel
The GNU utilities
A graphical desktop environment
Application software

The Kernel is the heart of the Linux Operating System.  How can you tell what version of the kernel you are running?
First number = major number
Second number = minor number
Even minor numbers indicate stable production kernels
Odd minor numbers indicate (unstable) development kernels
Third number = patch release

What are the parts of the Kernel and what do they do?
System memory management
Software program management
Hardware management
Filesystem management

What is a Process?
A running program

What does running in the foreground and running in the background means?
Foreground = displaying output on a display
Background = behind the scenes

What is the name of the first process that the Linux system creates?
init process

Kernel communicate with devices through Drivers ( True or False )____.
True

There is no need to rebuild the kernel when you install new devices because Modules allow you to insert and remove Driver code in the Live Kernel. ( True or False)____.
True

All devices in Linux are identified by the kernel as Files. The types of files are Character, Block and Network.(True or False)____.
True

Describe what a character device is and give one example.
Character device files are for devices that can only handle data one character at a time
Most types of modems and terminals are created as character files

Block devices handles data blocks at a time--example are Disk Drives--(True or false)
True

Which kind of file type will be used to send packets?
Network

What is the name of the special device files created by Linux for all devices on the system and makes use of a Major number and a Minor Number?
Nodes

What is a File System?
Facilitates the storing and retrieving of data

List at least 3 Linux file system types?
ext
Linux Extended filesystem  the original Linux filesystem
hpfs
OS/2 high-performance filesystem
nfs
Network File System

What is GNU? Who started the concept?
GNU was launched by Richard Stallman (rms) in 1983, as an operating system which would be put together by people working together for the freedom of all software users to control their computing

Describe the purpose of the SHELL
It provides a way for users to start programs, manage files on the filesystem, and manage processes running on the Linux system

What piece of software works directly with your Video card and Monitor in the PC when it comes to presenting graphics?
The X Window software is a low-level program that works directly with the video card and monitor in the PC, and it controls how Linux applications can present fancy windows and graphics on your computer

List at least 2  Desktops for Linux.
The KDE Desktop
The GNOME Desktop

What do you call a complete Linux system package?
Distribution

What is a Live CD and name at least 3 live Distros
A bootable CD that contains a sample Linux system
Knoppix
A German Linux, the first Linux LiveCD developed
PCLinuxOS
Full-blown Linux distribution on a LiveCD
Ubuntu
A worldwide Linux project, designed for many languages

What is a Console?
A simple shell CLI on the monitor

When Linux starts, it creates many virtual consoles. ( True or False)_____.
True

CLI (command line interface) was the only means of accessing Linux before the Graphical User Interfaces were developed(True or False) _____.
True

How to access the virtual console
CTRL + ALT + { F1 to F7 } Depending on the virtual console you want to use

What two things must every user have to log onto a Linux system?
ID
Password

How do you see what shell you are in?
The pwd command displays the shell sessions current directory location, which is called the present working directory

Linux is an operating system and has a hierarchical file system that begins with the root directory '/'.  All files and directories are created relative to the '/' directory( True or False)?
True

How do you switch user  from one user to another?
su -

